This video we'll learn more about function parameters and we'll also talk about the return statement
when we call a function and pass data into that function this data.
Are the parameters to that function in the function call.
These data are called arguments in the function definition.
They're called parameters.
What defined the vocabulary more precisely in the next slide.
As we've already seen when we call a function the arguments we use to call the function and the parameters
that the function expects must match in number order and type.
Let's see an example in this example we have a function prototype that tells the compiler that we'll
define a function named add numbers that expects to integers and returns an integer.
Then in the main I declare an integer variable named result and we initialize it to zero.
Then we call the add numbers function and pass in the integer literals 100 and 200.
The compiler will type check this function call to be sure it's valid.
Since I'm passing into integers and the function prototype says exactly that then the compiler will
not produce an error.
You can see at the bottom of the slide that I've defined the add numbers function.
It has two integer parameters A and B.
In the case of the function calling main A will be 100 and B will be 200 100 plus 200 is computed and
300 is returned to 300 is then assigned to the variable result in the main function.
Let's take a look at another example.
In this example I didn't provide a function prototype to save space but you should know at this point
that it would be void.
Say hello Sander's strain.
Notice that the function say hello expects one parameter and it's a C++ string object and it displays
hello followed by whatever string is in the name object.
The next three statements would normally be in Maine or in another function.
These are the function calls.
The first is say Hello Frank.
Notice that Frank is a C-style string literal but the function expects a C++ string object.
Aren't these types different.
Why doesn't the compiler produce an error here.
Yes the types are different but the compiler will try to convert one type to another if it knows how
to make the function call work.
In this case the C-style string literal Frank is converted to a C++ string object.
The same would happen if a function expected a double and it passed an int into it.
The it would be promoted to the double as we've already seen.
Notice the last function call.
In this case I'm calling the function Say hello with a single string object parameter.
My dog which is a variable name for a string object with the string buster in it.
Let's talk a bit about how parameters are passed into functions.
In C++ when you pass data into a function that data is passed by value what this means is that the value
of the data is passed in by copy.
So the compiler makes a copy of the data.
That means that the code in the function does not change the argument that was passed in when we finished
the function of the original data that was in the function call will be unchanged.
This is good and not so good.
It's good because since we're making a copy we can't change the original argument by mistake or intentionally.
It's not good because sometimes making a copy of data can be expensive both in storage needed and the
time needed to actually copy that data.
Also sometimes we really do want to change the actual data being passed in fear.
C++ has solutions for all these use cases and we'll learn about them soon.
Let's define some vocabulary used in programming languages that is formal versus actual parameters formal
parameters or the parameters defined in the function's definition in the function header.
Actual parameters of the parameters that are used when the function is called that is in the function
call statement.
Many programmers in languages call actual parameters the arguments to a function in C++ the actual parameters
are passed by value or copied to the formal parameters.
That might show you an example that will make this clear in this light I have a function definition
for a function called Parama test and this function expects one parameter called form.
This is an example of a formal parameter.
If this function expected more than one Pramer they would all be considered formal parameters in the
main function.
I'm declaring an integer named actual and initializing to 50.
Displaying actual which will display 50.
Then I'm calling the program test function with the actual parameter.
This is the function call.
Any parameters passed to functions here are considered actual parameters.
In this case the value of the actual parameter is copied to the formal parameter.
So formal in the pram test function will have the value 50 but it's at a different location in memory
than the actual Since the copy was made.
I then display formal and Purab tests so fifty's displayed then I assign 100 to formal and display it
again.
So you see 100 is displayed.
Now the function is done and we return back to Main and we print actual actual will still be 50 it was
never changed because Purab test was working with a copy all along.
It's very important to understand the concept of pass by value since it's critical to understanding
functions.
Let's talk about the function returns statement.
Next as we've already seen if a function is defined as returning a value of a specific type then the
function must return a value of that type using a return statement.
We've already seen a few examples of this and we've been doing in the main function all along.
If the function return type is void then the return statement is optional.
A return statement can occur anywhere in the function body but you usually see it as the last statement
in the function body.
The return statement immediately terminates the function.
It's possible to have multiple return statements in a function depending on the logic in your code.
However this is not a best practice.
You typically want a single return statement.
Remember having multiple break statements in a loop and the potential problems you could have with readability.
While the same is true with multiple return statements and functions.
Finally if the function returns a value then this value becomes the result of the code that's called
the function.
Let's head over to the idea.
See some examples of parameter passing and pass by value.
OK I mean the ID and I mean the section 11 workspace in the function parameters.
Project in this example what I'd like to do is go over some simple function calls that passing parameters
by value.
And I want to make the point and hopefully you'll understand that those by value parameters do not change.
That's really important to understand.
So I've got four function prototypes here.
The first one is called passed by value 1.
The second is called passed by value 2 and the first one expects an integer.
The second one expects a C++ string object.
The pass by value three function expects a vector of string objects and the last one print vector just
prints out a vector so if you send it a vector of strings it displays all the strings in the vector.
OK so let's look at it.
The first one passed by value 1.
It expects a number and a parameter name for that number is Nahm.
That's the formal parameter and all I'm doing is changing them to 1000.
Really really simple.
So let's look at my main in my main.
I've got numb which is 10 and I'm simply saying numb before calling bout pass by value 1 is.
Hopefully that a print out of 10 right.
That's what we expect then I'm going to call pass by value and I'm going to pass into it.
Numb which is 10 Remember pass by value 1 changes that value to 1000 and then come back and I print
out that number again.
Now you may think that we're going to get a thousand here but we're not.
It's passed by value so we actually passed in a copy to that function.
So the function was changing the copy not the actual.
Which is this numb here.
So let me run this and then I'll walk you through exactly what's going on.
You could see here before calling ten numb after calling still 10.
OK so let's let's talk about that.
Remember numb is equal to 10 and it's in my main.
So in this case here's my main function and it's got a local variable in there called name and we initialized
it to 10.
Then we call this function right here.
So this will be passed by value 1 and I'll just call it one.
OK just to save some some writing time.
So that's passed by a by value one and it expects an integer number.
So it's got its own copy of none.
That's the formal parameter and at this point the 10 gets copied over to numb.
OK now I'm going to set Nahm 2000.
Remember this number right here refers to that guy.
Not this one.
So I'm changing the local number the formal parameter to 1000.
I'm just changing this one two thousand.
I never touched this one.
Now this function is finished so this function is now finished.
This is gone and I'll talk about what gone means.
In a couple of it is when I talk about activation records in the stack.
That's it.
Now we return and in the main we display no one never changed.
Remember this was an absolute copy of it and so hopefully that makes sense would pass by value.
Let me show you another example.
Here we've got another num which is 20.
So don't get confused with the names I could use any name I want in that formal parameter I just chose
numb to make a point.
In this case it's another name.
So when we pass when we print here we're going to print to 20 then we're going to call pass by value
1 again and pass in that name so the 20 gets copied to the formal parameter.
We change it to 1000.
Again we change that local copy and when we come back we still have a 20 right we never touched the
actual.
So let me run this.
And now we're going to see 10 10 and 20 20 just what we expect.
It's no different when you use objects.
In this case all uncomment that code in this case you can see that I've got a string of C++ string object
called name and I've initialized it to Frank and then before I call pass by value to I'm going to display
it that's going to display Frank.
Then I'm going to pass that string object into pass by value too which is another function and that
function is right here.
It's going to change its parameter to changed whatever was there before is now changed.
And then when I come back I'm printing out name again name has not changed because that changed here
changed a copy.
OK so let's walk through this one again.
So what do we have.
We have main We've got the main function and it's got a variable called name and it's Frank
OK.
Then we called pass by value 2.
So this would be passed by value to and it has a parameter write a formal parameter which is a variable.
It's called S and we copied Frank in there so right now this becomes Frank now we say s is changed.
So we get rid of Frank and we replaced it with changed.
And again these are all strings string objects.
Now we return back to Maine.
This function is now done.
I never changed the name because I never even knew about it.
I was working with a local copy all along.
OK so same thing with integers as with objects.
So in this case if I run this program you can see the name before calling pass by value to as frank
and that name.
After calling pass by value to his frank again it hasn't changed.
Let's do one more just to drive this point home.
This is really important that you understand what's going on here in this example.
I'm using a vector of string objects.
I don't think we've used a vector of string objects.
We basically use I think vectors of integers and doubles.
We can have a vector of anything.
So here we're saying that Stooges is a vector of strings and the strings in that vector are Larry Moe
and Curly.
So I'm printing out Stooges before calling pass by value 3 and I'm calling this method this function
called Prit vector that just prints out those strings in that fact or whatever they happen to be that
I'm calling pass by value 3 and I'm passing and stooges and then I'm just printing it out again.
OK so let me run this first and then we'll walk through it so you can see that before calling the function.
Larry Moe and Curly after calling that should say after right there after calling the function Larry
Moe and Curly.
Yes let me change that.
Make that correct.
That way when you guys see it in the resources you know what I'm talking about.
So let me run that again.
OK so before calling Larry Moe Curly after calling Larry Moe Curly.
So let's walk through this example.
Here is the function pass by value 3.
So in this case what have I got.
Well I've got my main and my main has the Stooges variable which is a vector of strings.
In this case it's Larry Moe and Curly.
And these are all string objects.
Right now I call this function right here and I pass in stooges to it.
So this is passed by value 3 and it has that form a prouder V that could be any name we want.
Right now Larry Moe and Curly get copied into V so this will be Larry Moe and Curly.
Now I execute this line right here VIDOT clear that deletes these guys so now V is empty.
And that's it.
Then I returned back to main.
What happens this function is now gone.
And when I come back to Main it still has that Stooges vector Larry Moe and Curly.
I never touched it because again I was working with a copy in the next few videos were learned how to
send information in so that I can modify the actual parameters.
But it's important to understand that by default this is the behavior passed by value.
Make a copy.
OK so hopefully that that makes sense and if there are any questions please post them on the course
forums.